# Introduction

The Simulating eXtreme Spacetimes (SXS) collaboration is a
multi-institutional collaboration dedicated to the simulation of extreme
spacetimes in order to predict multi-messenger signals (gravitational
wave, electromagnetic, and neutrino) from high-energy astrophysical
events. This document describes various policies that members of the SXS
collaboration are expected to adhere to in order to carry out effective
collaborative research. One of the goals of these policies is to create
an inclusive, supportive and harassment-free environment that nurtures
junior researchers.

# SXS membership

The SXS collaboration consists of a number of faculty and senior
researchers that have agreed to use common
*resources* (§<a href="#sec:resources" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:resources">7</a>) in order to pursue collaborative
research. The current faculty and senior researchers, hereafter referred
to as *senior members*, are listed
in §<a href="#sec:member_faculty" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:member_faculty">9.1</a>.

SXS *members* are also the post-docs, graduate students, and
undergraduate students who are working with a SXS senior member on SXS
*projects* (§<a href="#sec:projects" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:projects">6</a>). All SXS members are expected to
adhere to the collaboration policies. If someone is unsure of somebody’s
membership status they should consult the SXS *executive
committee* (§<a href="#sec:executive_committee" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:executive_committee">3</a>). Membership in the SXS
collaboration does not guarantee authorship on SXS publications. SXS
*member institutions* are all institutions with an SXS member.

New members must send an e-mail to the executive committee
(*exec@black-holes.org*) acknowledging that they have read and agree to
these SXS policies, including the *code of
conduct* (§<a href="#sec:code_of_conduct" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:code_of_conduct">4</a>) and *publication
policies* (§<a href="#sec:publication_policies" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:publication_policies">8</a>). For example:

<div class="displayquote">

Dear SXS executive committee,

I, **NAME**, acknowledge that I have read and agree with the SXS
policies as outlined in the SXS Collaboration Policies document.

Best,

**NAME**

</div>

Faculty or senior researchers who are not members of the SXS
collaboration can be invited by the SXS executive committee to join the
SXS Collaboration. Prior to extending the invitation, an announcement
must be sent to *sxs-announce@black-holes.org* and the `#general`
channel of the SXS collaboration Slack (sxscollab.slack.com), giving
members a week to share any concerns about the new potential member.
Concerns may be sent either to the executive committee or anonymously to
the
*ombudsperson* (§<a href="#sec:ombudsperson" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:ombudsperson">4.1.2</a>) or
*advocate* (§<a href="#sec:advocate" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:advocate">4.1.3</a>). Suggested text:

<div class="displayquote">

Dear SXS members,

The SXS executive committee is looking for feedback on extending an
invitation to **NAME** to join SXS as a faculty/senior researcher
member. Please provide feedback either directly to the executive
committee at exec@black-holes.org, or anonymously through the SXS
ombudsperson/advocate at ombudsperson@black-holes.org or
sxs-advocate@black-holes.org by **DATE**.

Best,

The SXS executive committee

</div>

SXS student and postdoc members who move on to a non-SXS institution as
a postdoc must decide whether they want to remain as *alumni members*,
and retain access to some SXS collaboration resources and adhere to SXS
policies, or leave SXS and only retain access to public SXS resources.
Regardless of the decision, any projects initiated before leaving an SXS
institution continue to be governed by SXS policies until their
completion, with continued access to any SXS resources that are required
for the project. The student or postdoc should discuss with their
advisor whether or not they wish to remain in the collaboration. If the
advisor and student/postdoc agree that remaining in SXS will be mutually
beneficial, the advisor will ask the executive committee for approval.
The advisor will continue to supervise, be responsible for, and remain
the point of contact for the student/postdoc. Specifically, the advisor
will be responsible for ensuring correct access and usage of SXS
resources such as computer time, codes, and SXS private data.

If a member decides to leave the collaboration, they may retain and use
current copies of SXS codes, but are expected to offer authorship to the
developers of the codes who have earned authorship rights as discussed
in §<a href="#sec:publication_policies" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:publication_policies">8</a>. The member leaving the
collaboration can also transition to being an external collaborator and
discuss with the executive committee what other SXS resources they can
use. In all cases, members who leave may continue to use SXS resources
to finish any projects that were started as SXS members. Additionally,
any SXS code developers (see
§<a href="#sec:codes" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:codes">7.1</a>) who leave the collaboration and are
no longer contributing to the code will retain any authorship rights
they have for at least two years and at least five papers using the
code.

If a current SXS student, postdoc, or alumni member is starting a
faculty position, they may apply to the executive committee to become a
new senior member. If the executive committee approves the request, the
executive committee with then follow the procedures above by sending a
collaboration-wide announcement.

SXS members can be members of other collaborations such as the LIGO
Scientific Collaboration, the LISA Consortium, etc. If you believe there
is a conflict between SXS policies and the policies of the other
collaboration, please bring it to the attention of the executive
committee so that the conflict can be resolved.

# SXS executive committee

The responsibility of oversight of the SXS collaboration rests with the
SXS *executive committee*.

The SXS Executive Committee has the following authority and
responsibilities:

1.  It has the authority and responsibility for allocating the grant
    funds from our collaborative grants, with the allocations being
    guided by our scientific goals and by the various intermediate
    benchmarks that the Executive Committee defines. For example, as
    spelled out in our current Fairchild funding proposal, the Executive
    Committee receives this authority from Saul Teukolsky, the Fairchild
    grant PI. Saul, in consultation with the co-PI Kip Thorne, has the
    authority to overrule the Executive Committee’s funding allocation
    decisions for the Fairchild grant, though this will happen very
    rarely if ever. The Fairchild funds support people and activities at
    Caltech and Cornell. There are also funds for computing hardware.
    These hardware resources are open to all members of SXS. Note that
    grants for individual institutions are not overseen by the executive
    committee, but members should feel free to coordinate activities
    funded by these grants.

2.  It has the authority and responsibility to keep itself informed
    about all research projects that are supported by our funds (their
    nature, progress, and anticipated duration).

3.  It has the authority and responsibility to oversee and allocate SXS
    collaboration
    resources (§<a href="#sec:resources" data-reference-type="ref"
    data-reference="sec:resources">7</a>).

4.  It has the authority and responsibility to oversee and interpret the
    policies outlined in this document, including the code of
    conduct (§<a href="#sec:code_of_conduct" data-reference-type="ref"
    data-reference="sec:code_of_conduct">4</a>) and publication
    policies (§<a href="#sec:publication_policies" data-reference-type="ref"
    data-reference="sec:publication_policies">8</a>).

5.  It has the authority and responsibility to modify these policies and
    to devise new policies for anything that is not covered by this
    document. SXS members may propose modifications or new policies by
    contacting a member of the executive committee or the advocate. All
    changes to the policies in this document will be announced to the
    collaboration in order to obtain feedback prior to their adoption.

6.  It has the authority to remove a member who is no longer using SXS
    resources or who has seriously violated the SXS Code of Conduct.

The current SXS executive committee must decide when inviting a new
faculty or senior researcher to join the collaboration whether to also
invite them to join the executive committee.

In general, the SXS executive committee reaches decisions via majority
vote. However, any decision that involves resources from a specific
grant can be vetoed by the PI or co-PI of that grant.

The SXS collaboration will continue to exist until it is unanimously
decided to disband the collaboration.

The Student/Postdoc advocate
(§<a href="#sec:advocate" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:advocate">4.1.3</a>) is a liaison to the executive
committee, and not a voting member. The SXS executive committee cannot
assign the Advocate any tasks or responsibilities. This is to ensure
that the Advocate is representing the students and postdocs, and is
*not* a member of the executive committee.

# SXS code of conduct

It is very important that SXS is a positive, welcoming, and supportive
environment for everyone. Therefore, we have adopted a code of conduct.
All SXS members must provide written (email okay) agreement that they
have read and will abide by the code of conduct (see example text in
§<a href="#sec:sxs_membership" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:sxs_membership">2</a>).

SXS has created the positions of *ombudsperson* and *student-postdoc
advocate* with whom members can informally and confidentially discuss
any concerns that they might have regarding conflicts, problems,
violations of the code of conduct, or any other concerns they have. The
current ombudsperson and student-postdoc advocate are listed in
Appendix <a href="#sec:executive_committee_members" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:executive_committee_members">9.2</a>, and can be
reached at *ombudsperson@black-holes.org* and
*sxs-advocate@black-holes.org*

## Code of conduct text

### Overview

With the goal of supporting our fellow group members in doing the best
science we can, we expect that all members of the Simulating eXtreme
Spacetimes collaboration

- Behave professionally in a way that is welcoming and respectful to all
  participants.

- Behave in a way that is free from any form of discrimination,
  harassment, or retaliation.

- Treat each other with collegiality and respect and help to create a
  supportive working environment.

For more specific guidelines for appropriate conduct, we refer
collaboration members to the “Ground Rules” section below, which is
based on the LLVM Code of Conduct at
<https://llvm.org/docs/CodeOfConduct.html>.

If you observe violations of the code of conduct, or have concerns about
potential violations, we encourage you to formally report this to one or
more members of the SXS Executive Committee. After investigation, the
Executive Committee will work to resolve the situation, in consultation
with parties involved and preserving confidentiality to the extent
allowed by law, as outlined below.

If you have a concern about a code of conduct violation or potential
violation, but you do not wish to report it formally, you can speak
informally and confidentially about your concern with the SXS
Ombudsperson (see below).

The Executive Committee will take appropriate action to ensure that all
members of the collaboration meet the expectations of our code of
conduct.

### Ombudsperson

The Ombudsperson (email *ombudsperson@black-holes.org*) is a senior
member of the collaboration, either faculty or a senior researcher, who
offers confidential, neutral, and informal conflict resolution services
to members of the SXS Collaboration. All collaboration members should
feel free to contact the Ombudsperson to informally and confidentially
discuss any concerns that they might have regarding conflicts, problems,
violations of the code of conduct, or any other concerns they might
have.

After speaking with Ombudsperson, if you wish, you can choose to ask the
Ombudsperson to bring your concerns to the attention of the SXS
Executive Committee or to other people at the appropriate institutions,
and you can also choose to report your concerns formally to the SXS
Executive Committee (as outlined below). Otherwise, unless there is a
serious issue of safety, your conversations with the Ombudsperson will
remain confidential.

We have adopted the same policy as the LIGO Scientific Collaboration
Ombudsperson; see this document, replacing “LSC” with “SXS
Collaboration”, and “LSC Spokesperson” with “the SXS Executive
Committee”, for more details about the Ombudsperson’s role:
<https://dcc.ligo.org/public/0099/M1300006/001/LSCOmbudsperson.pdf>

The executive committee will solicit volunteers for the position. The
executive committee will choose the ombudsperson by holding an election
with ranked-choice voting among those nominees that agreed to stand for
election. The ombudsperson serves a two-year term.

### Student/Postdoc Advocate

The Student/Postdoc Advocate (email *sxs-advocate@black-holes.org*) is
someone who will advocate positively for the people in the collaboration
with less power, specifically high school students, undergraduate
students, summer REU students, grad students, and postdocs. It may
sometimes be daunting to go to professors, so please feel free to talk
to the Advocate about any issues and concerns you may have in the
collaboration, especially concerns about culture and environment. The
Advocate can bring up (anonymously) any of your concerns with the SXS
executive committee if you wish. Otherwise, unless there’s a serious
issue of safety, the Advocate will keep the Ombudsperson in the loop but
otherwise keep your conversation confidential.

The SXS Advocate must be elected by the student and postdoc members of
SXS, and be within two years of their Ph.D. (i.e. a senior graduate
student or a new postdoc). The SXS executive committee will have a call
for nominations and then consult with nominees to see if they are
willing to be the advocate. If the SXS executive committee has any
concerns with a nominee, they will discuss these concerns with the
nominator. The SXS executive committee will then supervise an election
among SXS student and postdoc members with ranked-choice voting among
those nominees that agreed to stand for election. Once the list of
candidates for SXS advocate is announced, the executive committee cannot
change the candidate list (unless there is a serious violation of the
SXS code of conduct). The Advocate is elected for a one-year term, and
may be re-elected.

### Ground Rules (following the LLVM Code of Conduct)

The Simulating eXtreme Spacetimes (SXS) Collaboration has the goal of
supporting our fellow group members in doing the best science we can. To
this end, we have a few ground rules that we ask people to adhere to:

- be friendly and patient,

- be welcoming,

- be considerate,

- be respectful,

- be careful in the words that you choose and be kind to others, and

- when we disagree, try to understand why.

This is not an exhaustive list of things that you can’t do. Rather, take
it in the spirit in which it is intended — a guide to make it easier to
communicate and participate in the community. This code of conduct
applies to all spaces managed by the SXS Collaboration. This includes
physical spaces at institutions with SXS group members; Slack channels,
mailing lists, and bug trackers; SXS Collaboration events (such as the
visiting institutions and workshops); and any other forums created by
the collaboration uses for communication. It applies to all of your
communication and conduct in these spaces, including emails, chats,
things you say, slides, videos, posters, signs, or even t-shirts you
display in these spaces. In addition, violations of this code outside
these spaces may, in rare cases, affect a person’s ability to
participate within them, when the conduct amounts to an egregious
violation of this code. If you believe someone is violating the code of
conduct, we ask that you report it by emailing one or more members of
the SXS Executive Committee (see “Reporting” below). If you would rather
not formally report your concern, you should feel free to discuss it
informally and confidentially with the SXS Ombudsperson.

- **Be friendly and patient.** During teleconferences and meetings,
  participants who wish to speak should feel free to type “hand up” or
  similar in the comment box, as needed, to get the chairs’ attention.
  Meeting/teleconference chairs are encouraged to make space for those
  unfamiliar with the topic of discussion to ask questions and engage.

- **Be welcoming.** We strive to be a community that welcomes and
  supports people of all backgrounds and identities. This includes, but
  is not limited to members of any race, ethnicity, culture, national
  origin, colour, immigration status, social and economic class,
  educational level, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and
  expression, age, size, family status, political belief, religion or
  lack thereof, and mental and physical ability.

- **Be considerate.** Your work will be used by other people, and you in
  turn will depend on the work of others. Any decision you take will
  affect users and colleagues, and you should take those consequences
  into account. Remember that we’re a world-wide community, so you might
  not be communicating in someone else’s primary language.

- **Be respectful.** Not all of us will agree all the time, but
  disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We might
  all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that
  frustration to turn into a personal attack. It’s important to remember
  that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not
  a productive one. Members of the SXS Collaboration should be
  respectful when dealing with other members as well as with people
  outside the SXS Collaboration.

- **Be careful in the words that you choose and be kind to others.** Do
  not insult or put down other participants. Harassment and other
  exclusionary behavior aren’t acceptable. This includes, but is not
  limited to:

  - Violent threats or language directed against another person.

  - Discriminatory jokes and language.

  - Posting sexually explicit or violent material.

  - Posting (or threatening to post) other people’s personally
    identifying information (“doxing”).

  - Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.

  - Unwelcome sexual attention.

  - Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.

- **In general, if someone asks you to stop, then stop.** Persisting in
  such behavior after being asked to stop is considered harassment.

- **When we disagree, try to understand why.** Disagreements, both
  social and technical, happen all the time, and SXS is no exception. It
  is important that we resolve disagreements and differing views
  constructively. Remember that we’re different. The strength of
  communities comes from having a varied community, people from a wide
  range of backgrounds. Different people have different perspectives on
  issues. Being unable to understand why someone holds a viewpoint
  doesn’t mean that they’re wrong. Don’t forget that it is human to err
  and blaming each other doesn’t get us anywhere. Instead, focus on
  helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.

### Reporting (following the LLVM reporting process)

If you believe someone is violating the code of conduct, you can always
file a report by emailing one or more members of the SXS Executive
Committee. **All reports will be kept confidential.**

If you believe anyone is in **physical danger**, please notify
appropriate law enforcement first. If you are unsure what law
enforcement agency is appropriate, please include this in your report
and we will attempt to notify them.

Reports of violations of the code of conduct can be as formal or
informal as needed for the situation at hand. If possible, please
include as much information as you can. If you feel comfortable, please
consider including:

- Your contact info (so we can get in touch with you if we need to
  follow up).

- Names (real, nicknames, or pseudonyms) of any individuals involved. If
  there were other witnesses besides you, please try to include them as
  well.

- When and where the incident occurred. Please be as specific as
  possible.

- Your account of what occurred. If there is a publicly available record
  (e.g. a mailing list archive or Slack logs) please include a link.

- Any extra context you believe existed for the incident.

- If you believe this incident is ongoing.

- Any other information you believe we should have.

What happens after you file a report? (Following the LLVM process) — You
will receive an email from the SXS Executive Committee member(s) you
contacted, acknowledging receipt within 24 business hours (and we will
aim to respond much quicker than that). If you do not receive an
acknowledgment, please resend your report.

They will review the incident and try to determine:

- What happened and who was involved.

- Whether this event constitutes a code of conduct violation.

- Whether this is an ongoing situation, or if there is a threat to
  anyone’s physical safety.

Once the contacted SXS Executive Committee members have a complete
account of the events they will make a recommendation to the full
Executive Committee as to how to respond. Responses may include:

- Nothing, if we determine no violation occurred or it has already been
  appropriately resolved.

- Providing either moderation or mediation to ongoing interactions
  (where appropriate, safe, and desired by both parties).

- A private reprimand from the working group to the individuals
  involved.

- An imposed vacation (i.e. asking someone to take a week off from a
  mailing list or Slack).

- Escalation to the appropriate institutions.

- Involvement of relevant law enforcement if appropriate.

If the situation is not resolved within one week, we will respond within
one week to the original reporter with an update and explanation. Once
we have determined our response, we will separately contact the original
reporter and other individuals to let them know what actions (if any)
will be taken. We will take into account feedback from the individuals
involved on the appropriateness of our response, but we don’t guarantee
we’ll act on it.

# SXS scientific goals and data

The scientific goals of the SXS collaboration are to develop codes that
can be used to predict the gravitational waveforms and multi-messenger
signals (electromagnetic and neutrino) from astrophysical sources
targeted by current and future gravitational wave detectors. These
sources include compact binary mergers, core-collapse supernovae, and
accretion disks about compact objects (e.g. neutron stars and black
holes).

The codes developed by members of the collaboration in pursuit of the
aforementioned goals (whether they perform the numerical simulations of
astrophysical sources, extract predictions of waveforms or signals from
such sources, or are used to build models of the signals from such
sources) are considered collaboration codes, and as such are available
for all members of the collaboration. This applies whether or not the
codes are open source.

Contributing to or using non-SXS codes does not fall under these
policies. However, the executive committee must be consulted before
using SXS computational resources with non-SXS codes.

The data produced by SXS codes in pursuit of the above scientific goals
are considered collaboration data and are available for all members of
the collaboration to use. Periodically the collaboration will release
public catalogs of collaboration data, after which the data will be
considered public data.

If SXS resources (§<a href="#sec:resources" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:resources">7</a>) are used for other goals
(e.g. proto-planetary disks, or white dwarf mergers, or LIGO thermal
noise calculations), then the following apply:

- The SXS executive committee can decide whether or not they wish to
  supervise the project.

- The publication and data policies of the individual SXS codes will
  still apply to the project.

- It is expected that code improvements for such purposes be merged into
  the SXS code repositories.

- Data produced by such projects are not considered collaboration data,
  unless the producers decide to make it collaboration data and the
  executive committee is willing to maintain and/or host the data.

# SXS projects

Any scientific research (with the expectation of producing one or more
publications) that uses SXS
resources (§<a href="#sec:resources" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:resources">7</a>) is designated an *SXS project*
subject to oversight by the SXS executive committee. Any project that
uses only public data from the start of the project will not be
designated an SXS project. When starting a new project, SXS members must
consult with a member of the SXS executive committee (who may consult
the entire executive committee and/or lead code developers) in order to
determine whether or not their project is considered an SXS project. The
executive committee may relinquish oversight of a project if the
decision to do so is unanimous amongst the executive committee, in which
case the project is not considered to be an SXS project.

At the initiation of an SXS project, an electronic announcement must be
sent to the SXS Announce mailing list *sxs-announce@black-holes.org*,
announcing the project, summarizing the project and its scope in brief,
listing those who are initially involved, and inviting other SXS members
to join. The SXS Announce mailing list consists of all SXS members.
Early and timely announcement of projects is vital to the health of the
collaboration and to maintaining a collegial environment. Those leading
the effort on the project are expected to provide periodic updates to an
executive committee member and are strongly encouraged to present
updates at one or more of the weekly telecons. Each project should
outline the expectations of each contributor in order to earn authorship
rights on publications from the project.

Although early project announcement is important, it is not intended as
a method of “fencing off” scientific territory. SXS members are
encouraged to collaborate and communicate with other interested members
on analysis projects, and the participation of those wishing to join an
analysis project should be welcomed assuming there is sufficient work to
be done. At the same time, there may be cases in which multiple,
independent analysis work on the same or similar topics is appropriate
or even desirable. In these cases, the executive committee will be
responsible for ensuring sufficient coordination of the analyses and
resulting publications.

# SXS resources

In order to achieve its scientific goals, the SXS collaboration provides
a set of community resources for all SXS members. These include a set of
*SXS codes* whose *developers* nay earn authorship rights on
publications from a subset of SXS projects, and *SXS infrastructure*
whose *maintainers* may also earn authorship rights as described below.

## Codes and developers

Codes developed to produce collaboration data must be made available to
all SXS members. In order to recognize the significant work of code
developers, the executive committee may designate a code as a SXS
collaboration code which gives some of its developers authorship rights
on a subset of SXS projects that either use the code or non-public data
generated by the code. The lead developers of a code may submit a
request to the executive committee that their code be designated as an
SXS collaboration code. The executive committee may also promote codes
developed within the collaboration to be a collaboration code so that
there is someone to take them over in case the primary developer leaves
academia. The executive committee, however, can not designate external
codes to be SXS codes. In addition, the executive committee can demote
an existing SXS code if it is no longer maintained.

Once designated as a collaboration code by the executive committee, the
lead developers of the code must present and receive executive committee
approval of a management plan that:

- Explains how the code will be made accessible to all SXS members. For
  example, as either a public repository or a private repository in the
  GitHub sxs-collaboration organization.

- Describes how the code is documented, and how SXS members can ask for
  help in using the code.

- Describes how others can contribute to the code.

- Designates one to three lead developers who will be the primary
  contacts for interaction with the executive committee, and for
  inquiries from SXS members. Note that a member of the executive
  committee is permitted be a lead developer.

- Describes the publication policies for papers that use the code or
  non-public data produced by the code. We provide a default publication
  policy
  in §<a href="#sec:publication_policies" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="sec:publication_policies">8</a>.

Otherwise, developers are free to organize their project as they see
fit. Developers are free to modify their publication policies, subject
to approval from the executive committee.

Developers are expected to provide reasonable support for existing code,
including improving documentation and fixing bugs on a reasonable
timescale. Developers, however, are not required to implement new
features, nor spend unreasonable time supporting new code development by
others.

Note that simple codes and scripts will not be designated as
collaboration codes. Only codes with significant development and
maintenance will become collaboration codes. Please discuss with a
member of the executive committee any development plans for any codes
beyond simple plotting scripts and data analysis tools.

The advantages of being designated a code as a collaboration code are
several:

- Some developers of a collaboration code are given publication rights
  on projects that use the code or data produced by the code.

- Additional SXS members can contribute to the code leading to
  significant improvements for all SXS members.

- The collaboration will be able to ensure the existence of the code
  beyond the interests of the original developer.

Most SXS members will contribute to SXS codes in a modest fashion during
work towards their projects. However, a small number of SXS members put
in significant effort into building the infrastructure of a SXS code. In
order to reward their effort, an SXS member can be designated to have
earned authorship rights on papers using the SXS code. Each
collaboration code should outline the requirements for someone being
designated as having earned authorship rights. For large codes such as
SpEC or SpECTRE, the suggestion is a total of approximately 3000 hours
of effort. For large codes, authorship rights may be granted for a
subset of the code.

In addition, an SXS member can be earn authorship rights for making a
significant contribution to the code, as decided by the existing
developers of the code. If the current developers do not deem the
contribution significant enough to earn authorship rights, the SXS
member may appeal to the executive committee. The executive committee
will discuss the appeal with the current developers and, if they so
choose, deem the contribution significant. The following all count as
code infrastructure work:

- Maintenance, refactoring, and modernization of source code, build
  systems, continuous integration, and source repositories

- Fixing bugs and optimizing code

- Performing code review

- Adding or maintaining the ability to build the SXS code on high
  performance computing systems that SXS uses

- Development and implementation of code that is merged into the SXS
  accessible repository, clearly documented, well-tested to ensure
  correctness over time, and align with the scientific goals of the
  collaboration.

- Development of backend code that allows the algorithms to work
  together to perform simulations (e.g. parallelization code like MPI,
  I/O code, widely used data structures, etc.)

- Running workshops about the code or concepts used by the code.

The list of developers with authorship rights for each code shall be
maintained by the executive committee. Nominations for new authorship
rights based on contributing development work shall be brought forward
to the executive committee at the beginning of January, May, and
September of each year. Approval of authorship rights shall be carried
out by the executive committee with consultation of existing developers.
Once given authorship rights, that status is maintained as long as the
person remains a member or participant in the SXS collaboration.

The current list of SXS codes and their lead developers are listed in
Appendix <a href="#sec:current_codes" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:current_codes">10</a>.

## Infrastructure and maintainers

The SXS collaboration provides a set of community resources for all
members. These include:

- SXS website <https://www.black-holes.org>

- SXS waveform catalog

- SXS GitHub organization <https://github.com/sxs-collaboration>

- SXS Slack organization

- SXS compute clusters

- SXS continuous integration computers

- SXS Google organization and mailing lists

- SXS allocation on national computing clusters

- Organization of workshops about SXS research

SXS members who spend time as maintainers of these resources can count
the time towards earning authorship rights for the code of their choice,
unless it is clearly contributing to a specific code. SXS members are
encouraged to contribute to the maintenance of infrastructure, and
should contact their local member of the executive committee in order to
explore opportunities for how to contribute.

A complete list of SXS resources and their maintainers are listed in
Appendix <a href="#sec:current_infrastructure" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="sec:current_infrastructure">11</a>. If you believe there
is an SXS resource missing from the list of resources, please contact a
member of the executive committee in order to discuss if it should be
included.

## Public outreach<span id="sec:public outreach" label="sec:public outreach"></span>

SXS views public outreach and engagement as an essential activity for
SXS members to participate in. To this end, public outreach is counted
as infrastructure work and is counted towards the time needed for
earning authorship rights. The time can be allotted to any SXS
project/code desired. Outreach activities include but are not limited
to:

- helping with science olympiads,

- generating animations and videos for the SXS YouTube channel, or
  LIGO/LVK to use,

- being a panelist at outreach events,

- advocacy work related but not limited to mental health, diversity,
  equity, inclusion, accessibility, etc. in STEM/academia,

- attending schools to teach children about science, even if it is not
  related to the SXS Scientific Goals,

- running and helping with workshops for undergraduate or graduate
  students, for example as part of a Research Experience for
  Undergraduates program,

- volunteering at science centers, science museums, or planetariums.

# SXS publication policies

The SXS Publication Policy is designed to promote the scientific and
technical accuracy and timeliness of SXS publications and to ensure that
fair credit is given to the authors and to other individuals who have
contributed to the resources used by a SXS project.

## Purview of this Policy

This policy covers all SXS projects unless modifications have been
approved by the executive committee during the SXS project. The
developers of each SXS code may choose to adopt these policies with
respect to authorship rights for SXS projects that use the code or data
produced by the code, including modifications approved by the executive
committee. The policies apply to use of SXS codes, regardless of the
copyright and license of the code, or whether or not the code is
publicly available. It also applies to any data generated using a SXS
code that were not public at the time the SXS Project began, even if
those data become public before completion of the analysis and/or the
resulting publication.

Disputes about publication matters, including but not limited to
authorship and author ordering, will be referred to the executive
committee if they cannot be resolved directly with the lead authors.

## Types of papers

We distinguish several types of papers, which are governed by different
guidelines, as discussed in later Sections of this policy:

1.  Scientific publications presenting results using one or more SXS
    codes. These publications are further subdivided into:

    - Collaboration science papers that involve results highlighting
      major accomplishments for the core science goals of the SXS
      collaboration. For example, catalog papers, announcements of new
      waveforms, or highlights of major breakthroughs that SXS as a
      whole has achieved.

    - Standard science papers. Examples include surrogates built using
      private waveforms, efficacy of new types of initial data, efficacy
      of new gauge conditions, critical collapse, and simulations in
      beyond-GR theories.

2.  Technical papers describing specific numerical algorithms. Technical
    papers do not show new scientific results, but may show some
    representative simulations compared to the existing methods. An
    example would be a paper describing local time stepping,
    demonstrating speedup and parallel scaling on various problems
    compared to the existing code.

It should be made clear what the scope of the project is from the
beginning in order to decide the type of paper. If the scope
significantly changes during the project, the executive committee must
be updated and may deem the project to fall under a different paper
category.

## Authorship and author list ordering

Authorship of SXS science publications using SXS codes will be drawn
from two groups: (i) those members and external collaborators who
contributed to the analysis and writing of the paper (referred to below
as primary authors); and (ii) those designated developers for the SXS
codes and maintainers of SXS resources used by the project.

For Collaboration science papers, the author list shall be The SXS
Collaboration followed by the author names in alphabetical order. In
general, anyone who is a member of SXS and has contributed to the
results being presented has rights to authorship. This includes all
designated developers of any SXS codes used to produce the results, as
well as any designated maintainers of SXS infrastructure. Furthermore,
someone who has run even a single simulation that is part of a catalog
paper will be an author.

For standard science papers, the default ordering will include two
tiers, the primary authors and analyzers, followed by an alphabetical
listing of those SXS code developers with authorship rights who have
requested authorship. The author ordering within the first tier is at
the discretion of the lead authors of the paper. If they wish, the lead
authors can opt for alphabetical ordering within the first tier or for
alphabetical ordering of the entire list. An invitation to SXS code
developers with authorship rights must be extended at least one week
prior to writing of the initial draft in order to have the opportunity
to meaningfully contribute to the paper. In addition, SXS code
developers with authorship rights must be notified at least one week
before submission of the paper so they have sufficient time to decide
upon whether or not they wish to be an author on the paper. Please note
the collaborative process is enhanced the earlier invitations are made.

For technical papers, authorship will generally be confined to those who
made direct contributions to the paper, the lead authors shall decide on
the author ordering. Again, they can choose to make the ordering
alphabetical if they wish. In addition, the authors of such technical
papers must be given authorship rights to at least the first three
scientific applications of the methods or results of the technical
paper.

The provisions of this authorship section may be superseded in cases of
violation of the Code of Conduct.

# SXS membership

## Faculty and senior researchers

- Nils Deppe (Cornell University)

- Matthew Duez (Washington State University)

- Scott Field (University of Massachusetts Dartmouth)

- Francois Foucart (University of New Hampshire)

- Lawrence Kidder (Cornell University)

- Geoffrey Lovelace (California State University, Fullerton)

- Elias Most (California Institute of Technology)

- Harald Pfeiffer (Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics)

- Mark Scheel (California Institute of Technology)

- Leo Stein (University of Mississippi)

- Saul Teukolsky (California Institute of Technology and Cornell
  University)

- Vijay Varma (University of Massachusetts Dartmouth)

- Aaron Zimmerman (University of Texas)

## Executive committee

- Executive committee (*exec@black-holes.org*): Deppe, Duez, Foucart,
  Kidder, Lovelace, Most, Pfeiffer, Scheel, Stein, Teukolsky, Varma,
  Zimmerman

- Ombudsperson (*ombudsperson@black-holes.org*): Geoffrey Lovelace

- Student-Postdoc Advocate (*sxs-advocate@black-holes.org*): Marceline
  (Marcie) Bonilla

# SXS codes and developers

## SpEC

A closed-source repository is available at
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/spec>. This is only available to
SXS members.

Please contact Larry Kidder, Mark Scheel, and Harald Pfeiffer for
co-authorship on any papers using non-public data produced by SpEC.

## SpECTRE

A public repository is available at
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/spectre> and website at
<https://spectre-code.org/>.

Please see <https://spectre-code.org/publication_policies.html> for
publication policies governing SpECTRE.

## The sxs package

A public repository is available at
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/sxs>, including documentation on
how to obtain the package.

The following functionality does not require invitation for
co-authorship:

- sxs.load

- sxs.simulations

- metadata

- horizons

The following functionality requires invitation for co-authorship for
Mike Boyle for papers written by SXS members:

- sxs.julia, including the PN and GWFrames codes

## PostNewtonian.jl

A public repository is available at
<https://github.com/moble/PostNewtonian.jl>, including documentation on
how to obtain the package.

Offering co-authorship to Mike Boyle is required for papers written by
SXS members.

# SXS infrastructure and maintainers

##  SXS website

<https://www.black-holes.org/>

##  SXS waveform catalog

Please use the sxs package (<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/sxs>)
to access the waveform catalog.

##  SXS GitHub organization

This can be queried from GitHub:  
<https://github.com/orgs/sxs-collaboration/people?query=role%3Aowner>

##  SXS Slack organization

Please see the Wiki,  
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/WelcomeToSXS/wiki/Slack>

##  SXS compute clusters

Please see the Wiki,  
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/WelcomeToSXS/wiki/Computing-Resources>

##  SXS CI computers

##  SXS Google organization/mailing lists

Please see the Wiki,  
<https://github.com/sxs-collaboration/WelcomeToSXS/wiki/SXS-Mailing-Lists>

## SXS computer allocations
